less command returns the content of a file one page at a time. For example, entering less updates.txt changes the terminal window to display the contents of updates.txt one page at a time. with the less command: you can use several keyboard controls to move through the file:
Space bar: Move forward one page
b: Move back one page
Down arrow: Move forward one line
Up arrow: Move back one line
q: Quit and return to the previous terminal window

grep {what you need to search for} { the place where you need to search }
pipline | -> input is on the left 
redirecting output to file : > overwrites your existing file, and >> adds your content to the end of the existing file instead of overwriting it

The find command searches for directories and files that meet specified criteria (like recursive function: start from a s specific place then go through all subdirectories).
first argument after find indicates where to start searching, the second argument is the criteria for the search.
the serach criteria is optionally so you can determine what criteria that you need to search according to it :
	-name,-iname: -name is case-sensitive, and -iname is not. to search for a specific word in file name ( can use the wildcards in search parameter ).
	-mtime: last modified within a certain time frame number of days, -mmin can be used instead of -mtime if you want to base the search on minutes rather than days.
	-perm: serach for file that have a specific permision 
	.............
 
 useradd:
-g: Sets the user’s default group, also called their primary group.
-G: Adds the user to additional groups, also called supplemental or secondary groups, can be more than one.

usermod command modifies existing user accounts. The same -g and -G options from the useradd command can be used with usermod if a user already exists.
You also need a -a option, which appends the user to an existing group and is only used with the -G option. ex: sudo usermod -a -G the_group the_existed_user.
-d: Changes the user’s home directory.
-l: Changes the user’s login name.
-L: Locks the account so the user can’t log in.

The userdel delete user but doesn’t delete the files in the user’s home directory unless you use the -r option.

chown command changes ownership of a file or directory -> chown new_owner file_name.
To change the group owner -> sudo chown :group_name file_name. You must enter a colon (:) before group_name to designate it as a group name.

When you create a new user in Linux, a group with the same name as the user is automatically created and the user is the only member of that group.
After removing users, it is good practice to clean up any such empty groups that may remain behind.

Authorization is the concept of granting access to specific resources in a system. Authentication is the process of a user proving that they are who they say they are in the system.

help commands:
man displays information on other commands and how they work.
whatis displays a description of a command on a single line.
apropos searches the manual page descriptions for a specified string, -a option to write more than one words.
--help after any command that help you to use known command for you.
linux community for Q&A: UNIX and Linux Stack Exchange-> https://unix.stackexchange.com 

openssl command reverses the encryption of the file with a secure symmetric cipher.
compute hashes using sha256sum,
display hashes using the cat command, and
compare hashes using the cmp command.












.