Learning Objectives
Define threat, vulnerability, asset, and risk.
Explain security’s role in mitigating organizational risk.
Classify assets based on value.
Identify whether data is in use, in transit, or at rest.
Discuss the uses and benefits of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.


//
Security plans are based on the analysis of three elements: assets, threats, and vulnerabilities. Organizations measure security risk by analyzing how each can have an effect on confidentiality, integrity, and availability of their information and systems.
Risk: Anything that can impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an asset ("me"the impact of threat),Risk factors Threats, Vulnerabilities.
Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets, types: intentional and unintentional.
Vulnerability: A weakness that can be exploited by a threat, Types: technical and human.

Security teams can prioritize their efforts based on threats. threat is any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets.
Asset management is a continuous process (the process of tracking assets and the risks that affect them).

Basic assets classification scheme:
Restricted: is the highest level. This category is reserved for incredibly sensitive assets,  like need-to-know information(need to know).
Confidential: refers to assets whose disclosure may lead to a significant negative impact on an organization (Limited to specific users).
Internal-only: describes assets that are available to employees and business partners (internal access only).
Public: is the lowest level of classification. These assets have no negative consequences to the organization if they’re released.

Data states
Data in use:     is data being accessed by one or more users.
Data in transit: is data traveling from one point to another.
Data at rest:    is data not currently being accessed.

Shared Responsibility in cloud: the meaning of divide security responsibility between cloud service provider and It's client.

Security plan: is a strategy for companies to protect there assets.
Security plans consist of: policies, standards, and procedures.

NIST provide companies with a set of frameworks and security standards that reflect key security related regulations.
NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF): is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.
CSF consists of three main components: core, tiers, profiles.
core: is the functions, or duties, of a security plan. ( identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover ).
Tiers: range from Level-1 to Level-4. Level-1 (passive) indicates a function is reaching bare minimum standards. Level-4 (adaptive) is an indication that a function is being performed at an exemplary standard.
Profiles: These provide insight into the current state of a security plan, CSF profiles are designed to address the specific risks of an organization . and organizations develop a baseline for their cybersecurity plans, or  comparing their current cybersecurity posture to a specific industry standard( like a complete roadmap for company to reach it's security goals ).
Organizations use the CSF to achieve compliance with a variety of regulations.
Regulations are rules that must be followed, while frameworks are resources you can choose to use.

(CISA) guidance to implement the CSF:
-Create a current profile of the security operations and outline the specific needs of your business.
-Perform a risk assessment to identify which of your current operations are meeting business and regulatory standards.
-Analyze and prioritize existing gaps in security operations that place the businesses assets at risk.
-Implement a plan of action to achieve your organization’s goals and objectives.

risk register is a central record of potential risks to an organization's assets, information systems, and data. Security teams commonly use risk registers when conducting a risk assessment.

we make assets and risk management to know what will be protected and waht's the risk on it. then make controls to proactively protect our assets.

principle of least privilege(PoLP) : is security control that supports the confidentiality, integrity, and availability, ask who need access and what will access then give him a specific access thet he need.
access level can change from one moment to the next.
1-Limiting access reduces risk -> Limiting access to sensitive information, Reducing accidental data modification,Supporting system monitoring and administration.
2-Determining access and authorization ( who can access what ).
	give each one the privilege that he need.
	user accounts:
	Guest accounts are provided to external users who need to access an internal network, like customers, clients, contractors, or business partners.
	User accounts are assigned to staff based on their job duties.
	Service accounts are granted to applications or software that needs to interact with other software on the network.
	Privileged accounts have elevated permissions or administrative access.
3-Auditing account privileges ( monitering )
-Usage audits (determine whether users are acting with it's resourses in accordance with an organization’s security policies "how user work with it's access").
-Privilege audits (monitoring user position and access and determine if privilege should change or not) 
	( privilege creep issue ): Users tend to accumulate more access privileges than they need over time.
-Account change audits ( monitor user account to prevent user attempts to make malicious action like change password )

separation of duties—a security: concept that divides tasks and responsibilities among different users to prevent giving a single user complete control over critical business functions. 
 

The data lifecycle: Collect, Store, Use, Archive, Destroy.
Data governance is a set of processes that define how an organization manages information.
Data governance policies (policy that outlines how information will be managed and protected )commonly categorize individuals into a specific role:
Data owner: the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information.
Data custodian: anyone or anything that's responsible for the safe handling, transport, and storage of information ( primarily be  responsible for maintaining security and privacy rules for your organization and ensuring that data isn’t damaged, stolen, or misused ).
Data steward: the person or group that maintains and implements data governance policies set by an organization.

data owners may have different decisions about thier data to protect so there are types of information that organizations must protect by default:
-(PII)Personally identifiable information( individual's identity): refers to information that can be used to contact or locate someone.
-(PHI)protected health information: information related eo someone's mental health or past present.
-(SPII)Sensitive PII: important info about someone like bank account number or login credentials.

Information privacy refers to the protection of unauthorized access and distribution of data.
Information security (InfoSec) refers to the practice of keeping data in all states away from unauthorized users.
The key difference: Privacy is about providing people with control over their personal information and how it's shared. Security is about protecting people’s choices and keeping their information safe from potential threats.
-> privacy is what data will be collected and known about owner and who will access it , security is protecting the data that I will take from owner.

Businesses should comply with important regulations in their industry. Doing so validates that they have met a minimum level of security while also demonstrating their dedication to maintaining data privacy.
Meeting compliance standards is usually a continual, so to check company adhering with copliance and regulations company should make security audits and assessments over time.

regulations are rules set by a government or another authority to control the way something is done. Privacy regulations in particular exist to protect a user from having their information collected, used, or shared without their consent. Regulations may also describe the security measures that need to be in place to keep private information away from threats.

->influential industry regulations that every security professional should know about are:
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
Center for Internet Security (CIS®)
The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®)
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)


Public key infrastructure (PKI) is a two-step: exchange of encrypted information, The establishment of trust using digital certificates.

Data Encryption Standard (DES): symmetric encryption algorithms that generated 64-bit keys.
Triple DES (3DES) generates keys that are 192 bits,or three times as long.
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES): secure symmetric algorithms today generates keys that are 128, 192, or 256 bits

Rivest Shamir Adleman (RSA): first asymmetric encryption algorithms, RSA key sizes are 1,024, 2,048, or 4,096 bits, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) is a standard asymmetric algorithm that was introduced by NIST in the early 1990s. DSA also generates key lengths of 2,048 bits. This algorithm is widely used today as a complement to RSA in public key infrastructure.

OpenSSL: open-source command line tool that can be used to generate public and private keys. used by computers to verify digital certificates.
Kerchoff’s principle: cryptography should be designed in such a way that all the details of an algorithm—except for the private key—should be knowable without sacrificing its security. For example, you can access all the details about how AES encryption works online and yet it is still unbreakable.

Hashing is a one way function.
(MD5) Message Digest 5: hash functions that works by converting data into a 128-bit value, In a hash table, this appears as a string of 32 characters.
Secure Hashing Algorithms (SHAs): to avoid hash collision (collision-resistant algoriithms).
SHA-1, SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384, SHA-512.
Numbers besides each SHA function indicate the size of its hash value in bits. Except for SHA-1, which produces a 160-bit digest.


Security controls can be organized into three types: technical, operational, and managerial.


Authentication systems are access controls to authenticate who access assets ( who are you )
Authentication by knowledge refers to something the user knows (like a password).
Authentication by ownership referring to something the user possesses (like one-time passcode, or OTP)
Authentication by characteristic, is something the user is. ( like Biometrics, like fingerprint scans )

Single sign-on (SSO) is a technology that combines several different logins into one. to go through system faster (establishes their identity once) .
SSO improves the user experience by eliminating the number of usernames and passwords people have to remember.
Companies can lower costs by streamlining how they manage connected services.
SSO improves overall security by reducing the number of access points attackers can target.
-Remembering many different passwords can be a challenge, but using the same password repeatedly is a major security risk. SSO solves this.
SSO works by automating how trust is established between a user and a service provider, using trusted third-parties to prove that a user identity, by exchange of encrypted access tokens. 
tokens are exchanged using specific protocols ( SSO rely on 2 protocols: LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol), is mostly used to transmit information on-premises; SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language) used to transmit information off-premises, like in the cloud.

Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is a security measure, which requires a user to verify their identity in two or more ways to access a system or network.  
SSO and MFA are often used in conjunction for good security.


Authorization: who access what(don't forget apply least privileges principle and  separation of duties to allow each one access just it's need), depends on a system or user's role.
When it comes to securing data over a network there is HTTP->HTTPS basic auth and OAuth for authentication .
HTTPS(basic auth) establish connection after authentication.
OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol that shares designated access between applications.from app to app using API tockens.API token is a small block of encrypted code that contains information about a user. OAuth sends and receives access requests using API tokens by passing them from a server to a user's device instead sending sensitive data from user.(like sign up new account by google account automatically)
*API tokens are small snippets(a small piece) of code built to secure API access. These small strings are sent to API servers, where they act as identification, proving whether the user or application has access to the API.

User provisioning is the process of creating and maintaining a user's digital identity. For example, a college might create a new user account when a new instructor is hired. The new account will be configured to provide access to instructor-only resources.


Granting authorization: If the right user has been authenticated, the network should ensure the right resources are made available
-Mandatory Access Control (MAC)
MAC is the strictest of the three frameworks. Authorization in this model is based on a strict need-to-know basis. Access to information must be granted manually by a central authority or system administrator. For example, MAC is commonly applied in law enforcement, military, and other government agencies where users must request access through a chain of command. MAC is also known as non-discretionary control because access isn’t given at the discretion of the data owner.
-Discretionary Access Control (DAC)
DAC is typically applied when a data owner decides appropriate levels of access. One example of DAC is when the owner of a Google Drive folder shares editor, viewer, or commentor access with someone else.
-Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
RBAC is used when authorization is determined by a user's role within an organization. For example, a user in the marketing department may have access to user analytics but not network administration.


Vulnerability management is a four-step process :identify vulnerabilities, consider potential exploits, prepare defenses against threats, and evaluate those defenses.

defense in depth framework used to protect any asset:It's five layer design. Each layer features a number of security controls 
 perimeter layer (usernames and passwords) as a first guard. 
 network layer is more closely aligned with authorization (network firewalls and others).
 endpoint layer: (access devices on the network) (anti-virus software).
 application layer: At this layer, security measures are programmed as part of an application (multi-factor authentication).
 Data Layer : critical data that must be protected like PII . One security control that is important here in this final layer is asset classification. 

(MITRE)Massachusetts Institute of Technology Research and Engineering: create CVE list, CVE list is an openly accessible dictionary of known vulnerabilities and exposures.
any one can report CVE but before a CVE can make it onto the CVE list, it first goes through a strict review process by a CVE Numbering Authority (CNA).
 
CVE list (common vulnarabilities and exposures list) tests four criteria that a vulnerability must have before it's assigned an ID:
-must be independent of other issues. In other words, the vulnerability should be able to be fixed without having to fix something else.
-it must be recognized as a potential security risk by whoever reports it (if exploited it will be harful). 
-the vulnerability must be submitted with supporting evidence.
-the reported vulnerability can only affect one codebase, or in other words, only one program's source code.

Vulnerabilities added to the CVE list are often reviewed by other online vulnerability databases like NIST National Vulnerabilities Database that do more tests on vulnarabilities.
NIST National Vulnerabilities Database uses the common vulnerability scoring system (CVSS) which is a measurement system that scores the severity of a vulnerability (0-10) 10 is high impact vulnarability should be patched. Security teams use CVSS as a way of calculating the impact a vulnerability.

Open (Worldwide or web) Application Security Project® (OWASP): platform to share information, tools, and events that are focused on securing the web.
OWASP’s Top 10 is the most 10 important vulnarabilities, updated every few years as technologies evolve. Rankings are based on how often the vulnerabilities are discovered and the level of risk they present.

CVE help organizations to develop existing progrms but OWASP top 10 help them to design new program to protect them.

Information vs intelligence:
Information refers to the collection of raw data or facts about a specific subject.
ntelligence refers to the analysis of information to produce knowledge or insights that can be used to support decision-making.
ex: if there is software update (information) analysis of this informatoin (intelligence) to ensure that update will not exploited and it is ok before puplish it for users and employee.

Gathering information and intelligence are important aspects of cybersecurity. OSINT (open source intelligence) is used to make evidence-based decisions that can be used to prevent attacks.
There’s so much information available, which is why it's important for security professionals to be skilled with searching for information. Having familiarity with popular OSINT tools and 
resources will make your research easier when gathering information and collecting intelligence.
(OSINT) is tools or websites that analyze information about new things and new threats and new vulnarabilities, you can use fome of them to make your intellegence to make decision.
briefly you should always search for new vulnarabilities that appear bec if you use a safe program the it be become vulnarable you should quickly correct or replace it. 
gather information and check it and anlyze it, this produce intelligence to take right decison.


vulnerability assessments: ( searching for vulnarabilities )
1- identification. Here, scanning tools and manual testing are used to find vulnerabilities.
2- analysis : define the source and test the vulnarability. 
3- risk assessment. score is assigned to each vulnerability. score is assigned based on two factors: the impact if the vulnerability be exploited and likelihood of exploitation this vulnarability.
4- remediation. address the vulnarability (fix it). Remediation occurs depending on score assigned during the risk assessment step.

vulnerability scanner: software to search for vulbarability ( go through each step perimeter, network, endpoint, perimeter an ddata layers and compare the current configuration to database of security threats (database update by scanner company)
--> it is like pentester but a program. it take many approaches and test each approach like attacker, it may crash your system inadvertently while scaning. 
types of scan (approaches):
-External and internal scans simulate an attacker's approach.
External scans test the perimeter layer outside of the internal network. They analyze outward facing systems, like websites and firewalls. These kinds of scans can uncover vulnerable things like vulnerable network ports or servers.
Internal scans start from the opposite end by examining an organization's internal systems. For example, this type of scan might analyze application software for weaknesses in how it handles user input.
-Authenticated vs. unauthenticated
Authenticated scans might test a system by logging in with a real user account or even with an admin account. These service accounts are used to check for vulnerabilities, like broken access controls.
Unauthenticated scans simulate external threat actors that do not have access to your business resources. 
-Limited vs. comprehensive
Limited scans analyze particular devices on a network, like searching for misconfigurations on a firewall.
Comprehensive scans analyze all devices connected to a network. This includes operating systems, user databases, and more.

-manual deployment strategy relies on IT departments or users obtaining updates from the developers. small business environments might require you to find, download, 
and install updates yourself. In enterprise settings, the process is usually handled with a configuration management tool. These tools offer a range of options to deploy updates
good to test the update by yourself but bad if you make misconfiguration.
-automatic deployment: finding, downloading, and installing updates can be done by the system or application.
good bec easy to deploy, bad if the patch isn't checked correctly by vendor.
note: Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) recommends using automatic options whenever they’re available.

end-of-life (EOL): Sometimes updates are not available for a certain type of software. All software has a lifecycle. It begins when it’s produced and ends when a newer version is released(when it be not supported). 

Patches and updates are very different from upgrades. Upgrades refer to completely new versions of hardware or software that can be purchased.

be updated.


Red team tests simulate attacks to identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, or applications.
Blue team tests focus on defense and incident response to validate an organization's existing security systems.
Purple team tests are collaborative, focusing on improving the security posture of the organization by combining elements of red and blue team exercises.

penetration testing strategies: 
-Open-box testing is when the tester has the same privileged access that an internal developer would have—information like system architecture, data flow, and network diagrams. 
This strategy goes by several different names, including internal, full knowledge, white-box, and clear-box penetration testing.
-Closed-box testing is when the tester has little to no access to internal systems—similar to a malicious hacker. This strategy is sometimes referred to as external, black-box, or zero knowledge penetration testing.
-Partial knowledge testing is when the tester has limited access and knowledge of an internal system—for example, a customer service representative. This strategy is also known as gray-box testing.

Skills To be pentester:
Network and application security
Experience with operating systems, like Linux
Vulnerability analysis and threat modeling
Detection and response tools
Programming languages, like Python and BASH
Communication skills

Simulating Threat: (as analyst you may need to simulate attack on vulnarabilities that in the vulnarability assessment)
Proactive simulations assume the role of an attacker by exploiting vulnerabilities and breaking through defenses. This is sometimes called a red team exercise.
Reactive simulations assume the role of a defender responding to an attack. This is sometimes called a blue team exercise.

you should have the hacker mindset and always be updated with new vulnarabilities and try to think as a hacker and simulate attack then fix the weaknesses in your system.
Anticipating attacks is an important skill you’ll need to be an effective security professional. Developing this skill requires you to have an open and flexible mindset about where attacks can come from.

threat actor is any person or group who presents a security risk so it's types:
Competitors refers to rival companies who pose a threat because they might benefit from leaked information.
State actors are government intelligence agencies.
Criminal syndicates refer to organized groups of people who make money from criminal activity.
Insider threats can be any individual who has or had authorized access to an organization’s resources. This includes employees who accidentally compromise assets or individuals who purposefully put them at risk for their own benefit.
Shadow IT refers to individuals who use technologies that lack IT governance. A common example is when an employee uses their personal email to send work-related communications.

Hcakers types: 
Unauthorized hackers: unauthorized hacker,unethical hacker, who uses their programming skills to commit crimes.(malicious hackers)
Authorized, or ethical hackers: who use their programming skills to improve an organization's overall security (bug bounty)
Semi-authorized hackers:who might violate ethical standards, but are not considered malicious. For example, a hacktivist is a person who might use their skills to achieve a political goal.

Attcak Vectors:(tools or methods or ways that threat actor use to exploit)
Direct access, referring to instances when they have physical access to a system
Removable media, which includes portable hardware, like USB flash drives
Social media platforms that are used for communication and content sharing
Email, including both personal and business accounts
Wireless networks on premises
Cloud services usually provided by third-party organizations
Supply chains like third-party vendors that can present a backdoor into systems


practicing an attacker mindset:
1- identify a target
2- determine how the target can be accessed.What information is available that an attacker might take advantage of to reach the target?
3- evaluate the attack vectors that can be exploited to gain entry.
4- find the tools and methods of attack. What will the attackers use to carry this out?

Organization shlould be secure against attack vectors
Defending attack vector;
1- educating users about security vulnerabilities.
2- applying the principle of least privilege
3- using the right security controls and tools can go a long way towards defending attack vectors.
4- building a diverse security team.


Simple brute force attacks are an approach in which attackers guess a user's login credentials. They might do this by entering any combination of username and password that they can think of until they find the one that works.

Dictionary attacks are a similar technique except in these instances attackers use a list of commonly used credentials to access a system. This list is similar to matching a definition to a word in a dictionary.

Reverse brute force attacks are similar to dictionary attacks, except they start with a single credential and try it in various systems until a match is found.

Brute Force Attack:
-imple brute force attacks are an approach in which attackers guess a user's login credentials. They might do this by entering any combination of username and password that they can think of until they find the one that works.
-Dictionary attacks are a similar technique except in these instances attackers use a list of commonly used credentials to access a system. This list is similar to matching a definition to a word in a dictionary.
-Reverse brute force attacks are similar to dictionary attacks, except they start with a single credential and try it in various systems until a match is found.
-Credential stuffing is a tactic in which attackers use stolen login credentials from previous data breaches to access user accounts at another organization. A specialized type of credential stuffing is called pass the hash. 
These attacks reuse stolen, unsalted hashed credentials to trick an authentication system into creating a new authenticated user session on the network.

Instead of dedicating the time to do brute exhaustive search and try all possible values Attacker can use brute forcing tools:
Aircrack-ng
Hashcat 
John the Ripper
Ophcrack
THC Hydra

Organizations defend against brute force attacks with a combination of technical and managerial controls:
Hashing and salting: Hashing converts information into a unique value that can then be used to determine its integrity. Salting is an additional safeguard that’s used to strengthen hash functions. It works by adding random characters to data
Multi-factor authentication (MFA): requires a user to verify their identity in two or more ways to access a system or network.
CAPTCHA: Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart. It is known as a challenge-response authentication system. CAPTCHA asks users to complete 
	 a simple test that proves they are human and not software that’s trying to brute force a password.
Password policies: managerial controls to standardize good password practices across their business


types of social engineering:
-Baiting is a social engineering tactic that tempts people into compromising their security. A common example is USB baiting that relies on someone finding an infected USB drive and plugging it into their device.
-Phishing is the use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software. It is one of the most common forms of social engineering, typically performed via email.
-Quid pro quo is a type of baiting used to trick someone into believing that they’ll be rewarded in return for sharing access, information, or money. For example, an attacker might impersonate a loan officer at 
  a bank and call customers offering them a lower interest rate on their credit card. They'll tell the customers that they simply need to provide their account details to claim the deal.
-Tailgating is a social engineering tactic in which unauthorized people follow an authorized person into a restricted area. This technique is also sometimes referred to as piggybacking.
-Watering hole is a type of attack when a threat actor compromises a website frequently visited by a specific group of users. Oftentimes, these watering hole sites are infected with malicious software. 
  An example is the Holy Water attack of 2020 that infected various religious, charity, and volunteer websites.

stages of social engineering attacks:
-prepare. At this stage, attackers gather information about their target. Using the intel, they'll determine the best way to exploit them.
-Trust. use the information they gathered earlier to open a line of communication.
-attackers use persuasion tactics.
-disconnect from the target. After they collect the information they want, attackers break communication with their target. They disappear to cover their tracks.

Stages of defense:
-Implementing managerial controls like policies, standards, and procedures, are one of the first lines of defense.
-Staying informed of trends.
-sharing what you know with others. Attackers play on our natural curiosity and desire to help one another. Their hope is that targets won't think too hard about what's going on.

Defense against Social Engineer is to teching others(employes, cstomers, ..):
Stay alert of suspicious communications and unknown people, especially when it comes to email. For example, look out for spelling errors and double-check the sender's name and email address.
Be cautious about sharing information, especially over social media. Threat actors often search these platforms for any information they can use to their advantage.
Control curiosity when something seems too good to be true. This can include wanting to click on attachments or links in emails and advertisements.


Phishing : digital social engineer, use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software.
phishing kit is a collection of software tools needed to launch a phishing campaign:
- malicious attachments. These are files that are infected and can cause harm to the organization's systems.
- fake-data collection forms. These forms look like legitimate forms, like a survey.
- fraudulent web links. These open to malicious web pages that are designed to look like trusted brands.

Security measures to prevent phishing attacks:
-anti-phishing policies spread awareness and encourage users to follow data security procedures correctly.
-Employee training resources also help inform employees about things to look for when an email looks suspicious.
-securing email inboxes. Email filters are commonly used to keep harmful messages from reaching users.

Phishing Types:
Email phishing is a type of attack sent via email in which threat actors send messages pretending to be a trusted person or entity.
Smishing is a type of phishing that uses Short Message Service (SMS), a technology that powers text messaging. Smishing covers all forms of text messaging services, including Apple’s iMessages, WhatsApp, and other chat mediums on phones.
Vishing refers to the use of voice calls or voice messages to trick targets into providing personal information over the phone.
Spear phishing is a subset of email phishing in which specific people are purposefully targeted, such as the accountants of a small business.
Whaling refers to a category of spear phishing attempts that are aimed at high-ranking executives in an organization.

Targeted phishing describes attacks that are sent to specific targets using highly customized methods to create a strong sense of familiarity.

rootkit is malware that provides remote, administrative access to a computer. Most attackers use rootkits to open a backdoor to systems, allowing them to install other forms of malware.
 -> it's (dropper "malware that comes packed with malicious code which is delivered and installed onto a target system [execution code]",
 	lodder "the backdoor itself  malware that downloads strains of malicious code from an external source")


Cryptojacking
Cryptojacking is a form of malware that installs software to illegally mine cryptocurrencies.
crypto mining is a process used to obtain new coins. Crypto mining is similar to the process for mining for other resources,Mining for gold involves machinery, such as trucks and bulldozers, 
 that can dig through the Earth. Crypto coins, on the other hand, use computers instead. Rather than digging through the Earth, 
 the computers run software that dig through billions of lines of encrypted code. When enough code is processed, a crypto coin can be found.
cryptojacking Signs:
- slowdown, increased CPU usage, sudden system crashes, fast draining batteries, unusually high electricity costs.


The best way to defend against SQL injection is code that will sanitize the input. Developers can write code to search for specific SQL characters.

SQL injection categories:
In-band SQL injection:
-In-band, or classic, SQL injection is the most common type. An in-band injection is one that uses the same communication channel to launch the attack and gather the results.
For example, this might occur in the search box of a retailer's website that lets customers find products to buy. If the search box is vulnerable to injection, an attacker could enter 
a malicious query that would be executed in the database, causing it to return sensitive information like user passwords. The data that's returned is displayed back in the search box where the attack was initiated.
-out-of-band injection is one that uses a different communication channel  to launch the attack and gather the results.
For example, an attacker could use a malicious query to create a connection between a vulnerable website and a database they control. This separate channel would allow them to bypass any security controls that are in place on the website's server, allowing them to steal sensitive data
Note: Out-of-band injection attacks are very uncommon because they'll only work when certain features are enabled on the target server.
-Inferential SQL injection occurs when an attacker is unable to directly see the results of their attack. Instead, they can interpret the results by analyzing the behavior of the system.
For example, an attacker might perform a SQL injection attack on the login form of a website that causes the system to respond with an error message. Although sensitive data is not returned, 
the attacker can figure out the database's structure based on the error. They can then use this information to craft attacks that will give them access to sensitive data or to take control of the system.

preventing SQL injection attacks is to escape user inputs—preventing.
ways to escape user inputs:
Prepared statements: a coding technique that executes SQL statements before passing them on to a database
Input sanitization: programming that removes user input which could be interpreted as code.
Input validation: programming that ensures user input meets a system's expectations.


six steps of a threat model:
-define the scope of the model. At this stage, the team determines what they're building by creating an inventory of assets and classifying them.
-identify threats. Here, the team defines all potential threat actors.
-characterize the environment. Here, the team applies an attacker mindset to the business. They consider how the customers and employees interact with the environment. Other factors they consider are external partners and third party vendors.
-analyze threats. Here, the team works together to examine existing protections and identify gaps. They then rank threats according to their risk score that they assign.
-mitigate risk. At this point, the group creates their plan for defending against threats. The choices here are to avoid risk, transfer it, reduce it, or accept it.
-evaluate findings. At this stage, everything that was done during the exercise is documented, fixes are applied, and the team makes note of any successes they had. They also record any lessons learned

Some threat Modeling FrameWorks
STRIDE
-is a threat-modeling framework developed by Microsoft. It’s commonly used to identify vulnerabilities in six specific attack vectors. The acronym represents each of these vectors: spoofing, tampering, repudiation, information disclosure, denial of service, and elevation of privilege.
PASTA
Process of Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis (PASTA) is a risk-centric threat modeling process developed by two OWASP leaders and supported by a cybersecurity firm called VerSprite. Its main focus is to discover evidence of viable threats and represent this information as a model. PASTA's evidence-based design can be applied when threat modeling an application or the environment that supports that application.
Trike
Trike is an open source methodology and tool that takes a security-centric approach to threat modeling. It's commonly used to focus on security permissions, application use cases, privilege models, and other elements that support a secure environment.
VAST
The Visual, Agile, and Simple Threat (VAST) Modeling framework is part of an automated threat-modeling platform called ThreatModeler®. Many security teams opt to use VAST as a way of automating and streamlining their threat modeling assessments.

PASTA threat model framework ( threat modeling framework )
1-define business and security objectives. Before starting the threat model, the team needs to decide what their goals are(what our app provide and what I need to protect).
-->The team determines the retailer wants their app to protect customer data.
2-define the technical scope. identify the application components that must be evaluated. This is as the attack surface. For a mobile app, this will include technology that's involved while data is at rest and in use. This includes network protocols, security controls, and other data interactions.
-->The team identifies the application components that must be evaluated.
3-decompose the application. In other words, we need to identify the existing controls that will protect user data from threats. (define attack vectors).
-->The team identifies existing controls that will protect user data from attackers.
4-perform a threat analysis. This is where the team gets into their attacker mindset. Here, research is done to collect the most up-to-date information on the type of attacks being used.
-->The team gathers up-to-date intelligence on types of mobile-app attacks.
5-performing a vulnerability analysis. In this stage, the team more deeply investigates potential vulnerabilities by considering the root of the problem.
-->The team more deeply investigates potential vulnerabilities related to the app.
6-conducts attack modeling. This is where the team tests the vulnerabilities that were analyzed in stage five by simulating attacks. The team does this by creating an attack tree, which looks like a flow chart.
  try to apply attack vectors on vulnarabilities.
-->The team creates an attack tree and maps vulnerabilities to attack vectors.
7-analyze risk and impact. Here, the team assembles all the information they've collected in stages one through six. By this stage, the team is in position to make informed risk management recommendations to business stakeholders that align with their goals.
-->The team analyzes all collected data and makes risk management recommendations.

Threat modeling is an important part of secure software development

keys to threat modeling is asking the right questions:
What are we working on?
What kinds of things can go wrong?
What are we doing about it?
Have we addressed everything?
Did we do a good job?

objectives of avy threat modeling activity is to document potential risks, prepare fixes, and improve security plans. While it is unrealistic to eliminate all future attacks, PASTA and other threat modeling frameworks can still help to reduce the risk of attacks.































Resources:
he U.K.’s National Cyber Security Centre(https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/cloud/understanding-cloud-services/cloud-security-shared-responsibility-model) has a detailed guide for choosing, using, and deploying cloud services securely based on the shared responsibility model.
The Cloud Security Alliance®(https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/) is an organization dedicated to creating secure cloud environments. They offer access to cloud security-specific research, certification, and products to users with a paid membership.
CompTIA Cloud+(https://www.comptia.org/blog/your-next-move-cloud-security-specialist) is a certificate program designed to teach you the foundational skills needed to become a cloud security specialist.
OWASP ( https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/ )

OSINT(open source intelligence tools):
VirusTotal is aservice that allows anyone to analyze suspicious files, domains, URLs, and IP addresses for malicious content.
(https://www.virustotal.com/gui/home/upload)
MITRE ATT&CK® is a knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on real-world observations.
(https://attack.mitre.org/)
OSINT Framework is a web-based interface where you can find OSINT tools for almost any kind of source or platform.
(https://osintframework.com/)
Have I been Pwned is a tool that can be used to search for breached email accounts.
(https://haveibeenpwned.com/)

hcker1:Bug bounty website (freelance pentesting)
(https://hackerone.com/bug-bounty-programs)
 
NISTs National Vulnerability Database (NVD) can help you remain current on common vulnerabilities.
(https://nvd.nist.gov/)

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-63B provides detailed guidance that organizations can reference when creating their own password policies.
(pdf in this folder)

some security tips on using caution with USB drives, including keeping personal and business drives separate.
(https://cisa.gov/news-events/news/using-caution-usb-drives)

Social Engineer:
OUCH! is a free monthly newsletter from the SANS Institute that reports on social engineering trends and other security topics.
(https://www.sans.org/newsletters/ouch/)
Scamwatch is a resource for news and tools for recognizing, avoiding, and reporting social engineering scams.
(https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/)

Phishing:
Google’s phishing quiz is a tool that you can use or share that illustrates just how difficult it can be to identify these attacks.
(https://phishingquiz.withgoogle.com/)
Phishing.org reports on the latest phishing trends and shares free resources that can help reduce phishing attacks.
(https://www.phishing.org/)
The Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) is a non-profit group of multidisciplinary security experts that publishes a quarterly report on phishing trends.
(https://apwg.org/)

Malware Information :INFOSEC's introductory course on malware analysis
(https://www.infosecinstitute.com/skills/courses/malware-analysis-introduction/)

SQL Injection.OWASP's SQL injection detection techniques is a useful resource if you're interested in investigating SQL injection vulnerabilities on your own.
(https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/latest/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/07-Input_Validation_Testing/05-Testing_for_SQL_Injection)

Log4Shell vulnerability in Java-based logging libraries (CVE-2021-44228)
(https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-44228)




