incident response playbook six phasis :

The first phase is preparation. Organizations must prepare to mitigate the likelihood, risk, and impact of a security incident by documenting procedures, establishing staffing plans,
 and educating users. Preparation sets the foundation for successful incident response. For example, organizations can create incident response plans and procedures that outline the
 roles and responsibilities of each security team member.

The second phase is detection and analysis. The objective of this phase is to detect and analyze events using defined processes and technology. Using appropriate tools (like siem )
 and strategies during this phase helps security analysts determine whether a breach has occurred and analyze its possible magnitude.

The third phase is containment. The goal of containment is to prevent further damage and reduce the immediate impact of a security incident. During this phase, security professionals
 take actions to contain an incident and minimize damage. Containment is a high priority for organizations because it helps prevent ongoing risks to critical assets and data.

The fourth phase is eradication and recovery. This phase involves the complete removal of an incident's artifacts so that an organization can return to
 normal operations. During this phase, security professionals eliminate artifacts of the incident by removing malicious code and mitigating vulnerabilities. Once they've exercised due
 diligence, they can begin to restore the affected environment to a secure state. This is also known as IT restoration.

The fifth phase is post-incident activity. This phase includes documenting the incident, informing organizational leadership, and applying lessons learned to ensure that an organization
 is better prepared to handle future incidents. Depending on the severity of the incident, organizations can conduct a full-scale incident analysis to determine the root cause of the
 incident and implement various updates or improvements to enhance its overall security posture.

The sixth and final phase is coordination. Coordination involves reporting incidents and sharing information, throughout the incident response process, based on the organization's
 established standards. Coordination is important for many reasons. It ensures that organizations meet compliance requirements and it allows for coordinated response and resolution.



///
playbooks are living documents, meaning the security team will make frequent changes, updates, and improvements to address new threats and vulnerabilities. In addition, organizations
 learn from past security incidents to improve their security posture, refine policies and procedures, and reduce the likelihood and impact of future incidents. Then, they update their
 playbooks accordingly.