What does security or cybersecurity mean to you? 
It's mean everything for me. So I interested in protecting people data and make people always save. And I always wanted to practice in this situations and the brexit on black protecting people and we will Data everything about people's privacy. I wanted to see to make it to make them safe.


Tell me about a time when you had to develop a new skill. How did you approach the learning process? 
If I in a situation that if it's a new thing or a new change, so I mean new challenge. Okay, so I exactly depend on online resources to learn about my challenge or my problem to solve it. I start by learning about my domain on my institution. so I learned then try to solve my problem and the exactly if I need help I ask any friend that in my team or interested in the same thing that I learn so after learning it be confident to with it. I exactly solving my problem.


How do you modify a string in Python? 
With some built-in functions like axis and index a specific index then modify it or insert function or append function. Also, we can work in a steering as an array of characters so we can change the characters or items in strength in loop or by indexing strange itself. So that's okay.


You join a new team who is behind schedule and struggling to adapt to new security processes. What do you do to demonstrate immediate impact and help your co-workers? 
Show them how are interested to in helping them exactly start with work I exactly will work directly. To indicate that I get there to work not to be to be karma and send no I I get there to work. So I will start working then try to communicate with them step by step. And I will I will make everything I can to make them adopt with with the changes or you're deadlines because we are one team and we all try to help others.


Please tell me why you would be a good fit for this role. 
firstly I am a person that who interested in protecting people and love to To solve a challenge. I love to to face new things every day. I love it challenges. I I love to to make everything safe. And also I have a good background for I I can use a SIM tools and another tools and can work work with bison understand this and regressions. and I can work and that bees and I finished it cyber security course from Google and I have a background about a programming if I ground good programming good programming background and I I am Equilibriative version and social person and I can work with others good and I can say I can't help and I can reduce new things and new solutions to regularly organizations.