Weak 2 (me)
virus is malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and cause damage to data and software. The virus attaches itself to programs or documents on a computer, then spreads and infects one or more computers in a network. Today, viruses are more commonly referred to as malware
Computer Emergency Response Teams, known as CERT
A worm can self-replicate and spread to other computers, while a virus cannot. A virus needs to be sent from one computer to another by a user or via software
Social engineering is a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables.
Phishing is the use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software.

Phishing is the use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software. 
types :
Business Email Compromise (BEC): A threat actor sends an email message that seems to be from a known source to make a seemingly legitimate request for information, in order to obtain a financial advantage.
Spear phishing: A malicious email attack that targets a specific user or group of users. The email seems to originate from a trusted source.
Whaling: A form of spear phishing. Threat actors target company executives to gain access to sensitive data.
Vishing: The exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source.
Smishing: The use of text messages to trick users, in order to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source.


Malware
Malware is software designed to harm devices or networks. There are many types of malware. The primary purpose of malware is to obtain money, or in some cases, an intelligence advantage that can be used against a person, an organization, or a territory.  

Some of the most common types of malware attacks today include: 

Viruses: Malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and cause damage to data and software. A virus needs to be initiated by a user (i.e., a threat actor), who transmits the virus via a malicious attachment or file download. When someone opens the malicious attachment or download, the virus hides itself in other files in the now infected system. When the infected files are opened, it allows the virus to insert its own code to damage and/or destroy data in the system.
Types:
Worms: Malware that can duplicate and spread itself across systems on its own. In contrast to a virus, a worm does not need to be downloaded by a user. Instead, it self-replicates and spreads from an already infected computer to other devices on the same network.
Ransomware: A malicious attack where threat actors encrypt an organization's data and demand payment to restore access. 
Spyware: Malware that’s used to gather and sell information without consent. Spyware can be used to access devices. This allows threat actors to collect personal data, such as private emails, texts, voice and image recordings, and locations.

Social engineering is a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables. Human error is usually a result of trusting someone without question. It’s the mission of a threat actor, acting as a social engineer, to create an environment of false trust and lies to exploit as many people as possible. 

Some of the most common types of social engineering attacks today include:

Social media phishing: A threat actor collects detailed information about their target from social media sites. Then, they initiate an attack.
Types:
Watering hole attack: A threat actor attacks a website frequently visited by a specific group of users.
USB baiting: A threat actor strategically leaves a malware USB stick for an employee to find and install, to unknowingly infect a network. 
Physical social engineering: A threat actor impersonates an employee, customer, or vendor to obtain unauthorized access to a physical location.

Security Doamins :
-security and risk management. Security and risk management focuses on defining security goals and objectives, risk mitigation, compliance, business continuity, and the law security analysts may need to update company policies related to private health information if a change is made to a federal compliance regulation such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability (Social engineering).
-asset security This domain focuses on securing digital and physical assets. It's also related to the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of data. When working with this domain, security analysts may be tasked with making sure that old equipment is properly disposed of and destroyed (physical attack).
-security architecture and engineering. This domain focuses on optimizing data security by ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place. As a security analyst, you may be tasked with configuring a firewall.
-communication and network security. This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications. As a security analyst, you may be asked to analyze user behavior within your organization (Password attacks, Cryptographic attacks).
-Identity and access management focuses on keeping data secure, by ensuring users follow established policies to control and manage physical assets.
-security assessment and testing. This domain focuses on conducting security control testing, collecting and analyzing data, and conducting security audits to monitor for risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. Security analysts may conduct regular audits of user permissions, to make sure that users have the correct level of access .
-security operations. This domain focuses on conducting investigations and implementing preventative measures .
-software development security. This domain focuses on using secure coding practices, which are a set of recommended guidelines that are used to create secure applications and services. A security analyst may work with software development teams to ensure security practices are incorporated into the software development life-cycle.

downgrade attack is an attack in which the attacker tries to force two hosts on a network (for example, a client (browser) and a website server) to use an insecure or weakly protected data transmission protocol
A vigilante is a person who is not a member of law enforcement who decides to stop a crime on their own.

The International Court of Justice (ICJ), which updates its guidance regularly, states that a person or group can counterattack if: 
The counterattack will only affect the party that attacked first.
The counterattack is a direct communication asking the initial attacker to stop.
The counterattack does not escalate the situation.
The counterattack effects can be reversed.


